TerraViz was formed as the final group project of the Techlabs Digital Shaper Program, with the urge to make climate change tangible. The team's first approach was to display past and present occurring wildfires as an immediate result of climate change. However, the team decided to tackle the overarching problem itself - Climate Warming - to increase awareness by displaying the severity of it. Thus, TerraViz created a web application that displays the global temperature development over the past century.

The TerraViz team is composed of Kim and Timea as web development experts and Florian, Lukas, and Bastian as data science specialists. Kims' and Timeas' main task was to set up the web application in the Front-End and mainly used React, Mapbox/Mapbox GL JS(Base map), Netlify(Deployment). The data science specialists Florian, Lukas, and Bastian prepared the different datasets in the Back-End while mainly using the programming language Python (Libraries: Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, and mapboxgl.utils). During the project phase, they have had the roadblock that they had no UI/ UX designer on the team. They overcame it by building knowledge in UI/ UX while using Figma, and by creating a design scheme for TerraViz themselves. Furthermore, they got challenged by the obstacle that the datasets were quite large and took a great amount of time to render. They minimized that problem by making adjustments on the web development side as well as by reducing the dataset's size in a creative fashion. 

As the final result, the TerraViz team created an interactive map visualization web application that displays the drastic increase of climate warming over the last century in a dynamic and accurate way for over 3,500 different cities in 150 different countries around the world. 
